have you ever been so alone that you
start to hear things that aren't there
maybe you even see things that aren't
real well that's nothing compared to
sam's experience in 2009's sci-fi
psychological drama moon spoiler alert
while i may give you my opinion on the
film that's no substitute for
experiencing it for yourself link to the
movie will be in the description we open
up to an advertisement for lunar
industries which is a company that
harnesses the power of helium from the
moon and sends it back to earth to
supply clean efficient energy why do i
feel like so many disasters and movies
are started by companies saying they
have a new better energy source like
every single one of them just sees the
energy and doesn't think about all of
the repercussions we open up on sam who
is working out alone and in desperate
need of a haircut
that looks amazing one person alone for
three years i go crazy when i'm solitary
for a few days i feel like that's a big
red flag for the energy company how do
you expect someone to hold up mentally
for that long three years is a long haul
see we just started and he already
agrees with me as sam proceeds to do his
duties of maintaining and collecting
from the mining technology everything
seems to be running smoothly we also get
to meet gertie who is sam's
technological assistant and companion in
this venture ah three years stuck with
that thing i'd have lost my mind in the
first month after a quick haircut thank
goodness a pleasant conversation with
gertie and working on his model town sam
receives a message from his wife and
daughter
i'm not sure if the videos from home
would make things better or worse after
so much time but it's nice that he can
talk to them kind of
[Music]
and here are the hallucinations we all
knew they'd come sooner or later and if
that's the worst of them then he's doing
pretty good considering three years of
this after a good night's sleep and a
refreshing breakfast gertie reminds sam
that he only has two weeks left in his
contract before he's sent back home sam
thanks gertie and continues back to work
so is this a new thing he made it almost
completely through his three years only
to start losing his mind with two weeks
left one of the drilling vehicles needs
sam to collect the energy from it so he
suits up and makes his way to the
vehicle as he approaches the mining
vehicle he starts to see a figure out in
front of him and it causes him to wreck
into the mining vehicle okay hold on how
did we get back to the base something
doesn't line up here can gertie even
leave the base gertie comes to sam's
side to explain that he's been in an
accident and he wants to keep him there
for observation for a few days sam
agrees and ends up going back to sleep
when he comes to he hears gertie talking
to new voices and he stumbles out to
where he hears the voices i was
recording a video message for central no
technology that will lie to you i don't
care if that's been his best friend for
almost three years it's time to keep an
eye on gertie and that smiley face just
makes him even creepier in that
situation after he's had some time to
rest sam is back on his feet and ready
to go back to work when he notices that
one of the harvesters is down he asks
gertie to send a message to headquarters
who in turn responds by telling gertie
to not let him outside to investigate or
go back to work so in order to get back
outside sam sabotages the base and
tricks gertie into letting him go back
outside under false pretenses honestly
i'd probably do the same thing this ai
is actively lying to him it's time to
find out what's going on as he ventures
outside he takes the rover to the crash
site from earlier and when he goes
inside the crash rover he makes an
amazing discovery
what i honestly didn't see that coming
with the way they handled it but that
would kind of explain how he made it to
the infirmary he never left who is this
imposter he seems kind of sus
hello sam how are you feeling
now he's waking up in the infirmary like
we originally thought it happened
hopefully there's some explaining done
soon i wouldn't trust anything gertie
says at this point though as old sam
asks gertie what happened gertie answers
with the same premise he gave the new
sam and once old sam sees new sam he
asks if he's real once again gertie
avoids the question and recommends that
he gets some rest now that he's up there
wait are these messages from his wife
all pre-recorded after old sam tries to
talk to new sam to find out what he
knows new sam mentions that it's a bit
odd to talk to a clone of yourself i'm
not a clone
the good old i'm not a clone you are
thankfully that doesn't go back and
forth for another five minutes they're
handling this extremely well after old
sam tries to open up to new sam the two
of them end up spending some quality
time together honestly old sam has
literally been alone for three years
even if new sam is his clone i'd imagine
he's just happy for some human
interaction after some time together a
message from headquarters is received
and both sams go to watch it
headquarters announces that they'll be
sending a rescue team to fix the
harvester that is offline headquarters
still doesn't know that old sam has been
retrieved from the crash but old sam
still thinks that he's gonna get to go
home soon once his contract's up of
course new sam tries to question whether
he really believes he'll get to go home
and he asks whether or not he thinks
original sam is with their wife back on
earth i'm the original staff here we go
again just go get gertie and make him
explain everything i love how quickly
new sam was able to come to terms with
everything like he just walks around
like yep i'm a clone so what are you
hungry if we didn't already witness
gertie lying i'd seriously wonder what
good he's really for he obviously knows
way more but this is just the worst
lying i've ever seen after the two sams
have a moment to really think about
their predicament old sam goes back to
his model while new sam thinks there's a
secret room of sam clone somewhere on
the base while he's searching he comes
to search under the model that old sam
has been working on but old sam doesn't
want him to destroy the model after the
two of them have a tussle old sam starts
bleeding profusely from his nose later
old sam has a sit-down talk with gertie
where he asks a familiar question am i
really a clone they are memory implants
sam
uploaded oh damn i never expected him to
just coldly explain it without easing
him into it and his monotone voice just
makes the delivery even more heartless
i'm very sorry
that doesn't help at all gertie old sam
returns to the common area where new sam
tries to apologize for losing his temper
earlier he tries to explain something
about the situation but old sam isn't
listening can you turn that off
oh no i thought he was way off his
rocker before but i guess that's what
happens when you find out you've got
nothing real to lose anymore new sam is
finally able to get across to old sam
that there might be a single jammer on
the moon with them and the two of them
take rovers out to find the source of
the jam as they venture outside of the
work perimeter they both come across
structures that the computer system
recognizes i think i see something too
you mean to tell me if they had just
gone a little further out they would
have seen these things this whole time
they didn't even try to hide them they
just stuck them on the other side of a
little moon hill
it might have been better to just put
him out of his misery back when they
brought him to the infirmary once old
sam makes his way back to base he
continues to worsen in his symptoms and
he goes to the computer to try and find
out more he ends up coming across logs
from previous sams that were employed at
the same base each of them was put into
a cryo bed at the end of their three
years and old sam goes to investigate
the room once there old sam uncovers a
secret panel in the floor he waits until
new sam arrives then they both delve
down the ladder it's here that they
discover where the clone bodies are kept
jesus christ there's so many of them
have they gone through that many or are
they still fresh ones i would have woken
up every single one of them if they were
fresh welcome to the moon population 300
me's in a last chance attempt to salvage
some of what he's lost in the last few
hours old sam goes outside of the
jammers so he can make a call back to
earth he calls the bell residence and
his daughter eve answers when he asks to
speak to his wife tess he gets some
terrible news i'm sorry she passed away
some years ago these sam clones just
can't catch a break at least the old sam
can't he spent almost three years with
these memories flooding through him and
the hope of going back to his family
after his time was up this is depressing
when eve gets a little creeped out she
calls for the original sam and the old
sam clone hangs up quickly
if only he had a home to go to once old
sam returns to base he runs into new sap
who's trying to learn how to whittle the
figures for the town model old sam comes
to the realization that when the rescue
crew arrives shortly they'll kill both
of them if they see that they're both
alive at the same time and in that
instance old sam starts to fade even
further can we please put old sam out of
his misery there's no more mysteries to
solve he's just suffering now after new
sam takes old time to bed he comes back
out and plays back the transmission of
old sam's phone call and when he hears
the news about tess he realizes that
finding out about tess is why old sam is
so scared
oh god why did they have to give the
clones memories why couldn't they just
make them a blank slate or make them
think that they're single people this
whole time they literally could have
created their world for them without any
attachments giving them a real family to
miss isn't really gonna help anything
that's just cruel after having an
epiphany new sam tries to talk gertie
into waking up another clone you want me
and the other sam to be killed wake them
all up make your own army
[Music]
those lyrics definitely hit differently
now that we know everything when he
walks around the station he notices that
new sam has brought out another clone to
be the dummy for the crash site that way
the retrieval team will think they took
the old sam then he explains that old
sam is getting sent back in one of the
helium-3 shuttles
he really thought it all out didn't he
as more time elapses so does old sam's
ability to function i'm not going back i
don't think he'd survive the trip
anyways look at him old sam makes the
decision to have new sam go back to
earth in instead as a result of this
decision the two sams travel back to the
crash site and they put old sam back
into the rover where he was originally
found leaving your own body to die has
to be one of the trippiest and hardest
things to do literally just to watch
yourself be left for dead technically
once new sam gets back to the base he
frantically starts preparing to depart
in the helium shuttle but gertie
mentions that his memory banks are full
of incriminating evidence of what he is
about to do
what does gertie do you could erase my
memory banks i'm so sorry i ever doubted
gertie remember when i said we couldn't
trust him i take it all back now
everyone needs a gertie before sam sets
off from the base he puts in the
coordinates for the jamming tower so
that one of the remaining harvesters
will run it down eventually
at least he had some peace of mind
during his last moments
yes down with the corporation i think
this is the first time in a while that a
character's plan has worked out to the t
six the clone of sam bell has been
giving evidence at cea's board of
directors meeting hell yeah this worked
out perfectly this is about as well as
this story could have turned out
unbelievable for a film that revolves
around one singular character
essentially talking to himself this is
phenomenal sam rockwell gives an amazing
performance and is absolutely believable
every step of the way this was an
absolute delight and i wouldn't be
surprised if something like this was an
issue to address in the near future
thanks for watching the video i hope you
enjoyed it don't forget to like and
subscribe to see more videos like this
one leave a comment on what you'd like
me to watch next and i'll see you in the
next video